docs/index.md, before:

**Documentation in development**

![Praxis LIVE logo](img/praxislive.png)

Praxis LIVE is a hybrid visual IDE for live creative coding.

_easily create projections, interactive spaces, custom VJ tools, sonic performance instruments, media for theatre; use it as a live digital sketchbook, test out ideas, experiment with code_

It's free, cross-platform and open-source. Download from [www.praxislive.org](http://www.praxislive.org)

![Praxis LIVE screenshot](img/PL2.jpg)

## Primary Features

* **Real-time audio / video**. Designed for live manipulation of audio & video. OpenGL graphics pipeline with hardware accelerated video processing. Low-latency audio with optional [JACK](http://www.jackaudio.org/) binding for optimal performance and integration with other software.
* **Intuitive graphical patching**. Patcher-style editing provides fast visual project building - drag and drop components from the palette; draw in audio, video and control connections. Everything is editable live, providing instant feedback without interrupting your creative flow.
* **Extend at runtime**. Fork components on-the-fly, or create new ones from scratch, _all without missing a frame or a beat_. Integrated editor support for Java, Processing & GLSL. Export and share, or import from a growing library of custom components.
* **Custom controllers**. Build your own control panels in the visual GUI editor - widgets automatically configure and sync themselves to bound properties. Map MIDI controllers or OSC addresses to any property, allowing for a wide range of external control options.
* **Physical computing**. Simple video components for motion tracking and detection can be used to control other parameters. Use the [TinkerForge](http://www.tinkerforge.com/) bindings to provide access to a range of sensors, or control motors, servos & other equipment.
* **Distributed by Design**. Built from the ground up for working with multiple media, using an architecture based around models for distributed processing. Option to run projects transparently across multiple processes (for performance) or across multiple machines on a network.

## Getting started

* [Installation](installation.md)
* [Example projects](examples.md)
* [Architecture & terminology](architecture.md)
* [Main interface](main-interface.md)
* [Projects](projects.md)
* [Editors](editors.md)
* Component editors
* Custom components

## Creating custom components

* Coding in Praxis LIVE
* Annotations
* Properties

## Advanced usage

* Distributed hubs
* CLI player
* Terminal

## Contact / support

Support is available through the [Praxis LIVE website](http://www.praxislive.org) or the [mailing list](http://groups.google.com/d/forum/praxis-live)

Please report bugs or make features requests on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/praxis-live/support/issues)

Commit message:

Add features introduction from website.

docs/index.md, after:

**Documentation in development**

![Praxis LIVE logo](img/praxislive.png)

Praxis LIVE is a hybrid visual IDE for live creative coding.

_easily create projections, interactive spaces, custom VJ tools, sonic performance instruments, media for theatre; use it as a live digital sketchbook, test out ideas, experiment with code_

Download from [www.praxislive.org](http://www.praxislive.org)

![Praxis LIVE screenshot](img/PL2.jpg)

## Primary Features

_Praxis LIVE_ is designed to fill the need for a free, open-source and cross-platform visual environment for working with multimedia. Though partially inspired by proprietary tools such as AudioMulch, Bidule, Isadora and Quartz Composer, it is not intended to be a clone of any of them — _Praxis LIVE_ brings its own powerful and unique set of features.

* **Real-time audio / video**. Designed for live manipulation of audio & video. OpenGL graphics pipeline with hardware accelerated video processing. Low-latency audio with optional [JACK](http://www.jackaudio.org/) binding for optimal performance and integration with other software.
* **Intuitive graphical patching**. Patcher-style editing provides fast visual project building - drag and drop components from the palette; draw in audio, video and control connections. Everything is editable live, providing instant feedback without interrupting your creative flow.
* **Extend at runtime**. Fork components on-the-fly, or create new ones from scratch, _all without missing a frame or a beat_. Integrated editor support for Java, Processing & GLSL. Export and share, or import from a growing library of custom components.
* **Custom controllers**. Build your own control panels in the visual GUI editor - widgets automatically configure and sync themselves to bound properties. Map MIDI controllers or OSC addresses to any property, allowing for a wide range of external control options.
* **Physical computing**. Simple video components for motion tracking and detection can be used to control other parameters. Use the [TinkerForge](http://www.tinkerforge.com/) bindings to provide access to a range of sensors, or control motors, servos & other equipment.
* **Distributed by Design**. Built from the ground up for working with multiple media, using an architecture based around models for distributed processing. Option to run projects transparently across multiple processes (for performance) or across multiple machines on a network.

## Getting started

* [Installation](installation.md)
* [Example projects](examples.md)
* [Architecture & terminology](architecture.md)
* [Main interface](main-interface.md)
* [Projects](projects.md)
* [Editors](editors.md)
* Component editors
* Custom components

## Creating custom components

* Coding in Praxis LIVE
* Annotations
* Properties

## Advanced usage

* Distributed hubs
* CLI player
* Terminal

## Contact / support

Support is available through the [Praxis LIVE website](http://www.praxislive.org) or the [mailing list](http://groups.google.com/d/forum/praxis-live)

Please report bugs or make features requests on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/praxis-live/support/issues)
